=== EXPERIMENT 1: Survey-Based Evaluation ===

Text 1 (Short):
“A New Clue Suggests Biden May Run”, The New Yorker, Oct. 8, 2015. 543 words.

Joe Biden has taken another step toward entering the Presidential race.

Representatives of the Vice-President held a meeting this week with Democratic National Committee staffers. They briefed Biden’s aides on arcane but crucial rules that the Vice-President would need to understand if he decides to run, according to a D.N.C. official.

It was the most significant sign the source had seen to indicate Biden’s intentions. “I think it means he’s running,” the source said.

The D.N.C. has held similar meetings for representatives from the five declared Democratic candidates: Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders, Jim Webb, Martin O’Malley, and Lincoln Chafee. The D.N.C. offered the meeting to Biden earlier this year, and the party committee was scheduled to brief his aides back in June, but that meeting was cancelled.

When the meeting was finally held this week, D.N.C. staffers walked Biden’s representatives through the primary calendar, filing deadlines, the mechanics of ballot-access issues, and the complicated details of the party’s state-by-state selection process for delegates and super delegates. The session included a level of detail that would only be of interest to a candidate who is serious about running. For example, the briefing included information about issues such as whether a particular primary state requires a candidate to send a letter to the Secretary of State in order to get on the ballot, or circulate a petition, or pursue some other method.

But, while the briefing is considered an important step for any candidate who is serious about entering the race, how it will affect Biden’s decision is unclear. It may simply be that Biden is still gathering the necessary information to help him make a final determination. And the details of the complicated process of winning enough delegates to secure his party’s nomination might convince Biden that the window to enter the race has passed.

The D.N.C. source, who was briefed on the meeting, said that the information conveyed seemed eye-opening for Biden’s aides. “They probably thought they had a lot longer,” the source said. “The deadlines for qualifying on the ballots for key states haven’t passed yet, but are fast approaching.”

“D.N.C. staff offers all Democratic Presidential candidates and potential candidates briefings on the ballot and delegate process,” said a D.N.C. spokesperson, declining to confirm or deny whether D.N.C. staff briefed Biden’s representatives this week.

The rumblings in Democratic circles about whether Biden may be leaning toward running seem to be impacting the Clinton campaign. Yesterday, Clinton announced that she no longer supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the trade deal that, in 2012, she said “sets the gold standard in trade agreements to open free, transparent, fair trade, the kind of environment that has the rule of law and a level playing field.” Additionally, in “Hard Choices,” Clinton’s 2014 memoir of her tenure as Secretary of State, she wrote that the T.P.P. would be a “signature economic pillar of our strategy in Asia.”

The trade deal is vehemently opposed by labor unions, whose support Biden would count on if he enters the race. As a sitting Vice-President, it would be far more difficult for Biden to oppose the T.P.P., one of Obama’s top remaining priorities, and on Tuesday, Biden’s spokesperson confirmed that he supports the bill and will help pass it on the Hill.


Text 2 (Long):
“There’s Already Life on Mars, and We Put It There”, The New Yorker, Oct 8, 2015. 1260 words.

Last week, NASA announced the unravelling of a major Mars mystery. “Now we know there is liquid water on the surface of this cold desert planet,” Michael Meyer, the Mars Exploration Program’s lead scientist, said. Specifically, an orbiting spacecraft has detected what the agency’s scientists are calling recurring slope lineae—cold, salty streaks of damp soil that appear seasonally in several craters and chasms. NASA’s strategy for seeking out extraterrestrial life has traditionally been to follow the water, since all organisms on Earth require it, and Earth organisms are the only kind we know. The announcement therefore raised another persistent question: Does this mean there’s life on Mars?

NASA had an answer for that one, too. “We know there’s life on Mars already because we sent it there,” John Grunsfeld, the associate administrator of the agency’s Science Mission Directorate, said during a press conference on Monday. It is a Faustian condition of space exploration that we cannot search for life on alien planets without bringing along very small amounts of very small Earth life. This process is known as forward contamination, and minimizing, if not preventing, its occurrence is the responsibility of Cassie Conley, a plant biologist who has served as NASA’s planetary-protection officer since 2006. “It’s basic common sense,” Conley told me. “We have to be careful not to blind ourselves with Earth life, the same way you can’t see the stars when the sun is out.”

In an ideal universe, the crewless spacecraft that we send to Mars would be sterile. (Humans are, by definition, contaminants.) In reality, for both technical and economic reasons, they are not. Rather, they are cleaned up enough to satisfy the Committee on Space Research, the international body that sets the ground rules for extraterrestrial exploration. The relevant COSPAR standard was conceived back in the nineteen-fifties, and it relies on an estimate of how likely Earth organisms are to survive on Mars. But, given how little scientists knew about conditions on the red planet at the time, Conley said, it “was pretty much a case of sticking their fingers in the air and saying ‘Hmmm.’ ” Still, the discussions were contentious, and they dragged on for more than a decade. Eventually, the committee settled on what it considered an acceptable level of contamination risk: one in a thousand. In other words, humanity must limit itself to one chance in a thousand of seeding another planet with terrestrial life in the course of exploring it.

The risk was divvied up among the spacefaring nations, with the United States receiving just under half of the total allocation: one chance in forty thousand. Every one of NASA’s subsequent planetary missions—the Viking probes, Pathfinder, and the ill-fated Mars Polar Lander—has used up some tiny fraction of this imaginary figure. Once astronauts get involved, though, all bets will be off. COSPAR’s framework is intended to cover only the short window of time during which a planet remains uncontaminated (and thus alien) enough to be of “biological interest.” Originally, this period was set at an optimistic twenty years. It has since been extended.

The first Martian landers, Vikings 1 and 2, which launched in 1975, were the cleanest things that NASA has ever sent into space. After their final bake-off at Kennedy Space Center (two hundred and thirty-three degrees Fahrenheit for thirty hours), they were determined to have just 0.3 organisms remaining—not an actual tally, of course, but the result of an abstract calculation that took into account the results of pre-assembly surface swabs and average kill rates. When the Viking data came back from Mars, it painted a picture of a much harsher, drier environment than many planetary scientists had hoped or imagined, and subsequent missions were accordingly allowed to carry a higher bioburden. The Mars Science Laboratory—the mission that landed the Curiosity Rover in August, 2012—was estimated to host just under thirty thousand heat-resistant bacterial endospores at launch, many more than Viking, but, as Conley pointed out, “still fewer than the number on your hand.”

As NASA scientists have learned more about both the Martian climate and the extreme hardiness of some Earth microbes, however, they have had to update their risk assessments. “The idea was that we need to be the most vigilant on the early missions, when we don’t have any knowledge of Mars, and we can relax when we know more,” Conley said. “But it turns out maybe we relaxed too much.” When she conducted the planetary-protection review of Curiosity’s proposed landing site, at Gale Crater, she thought, “This is a flat site at the equator. There’s no way it will have water.” Following last week’s announcement, however, it now seems that there may be water only a few miles away from Curiosity’s path. Under current COSPAR rules, the rover is not clean enough to go near it. “Mars continues to surprise us,” Conley said. “This is a good problem to have.” To solve it, she is consulting her advisory committee, an eclectic group of geologists, astrobiologists, planetary scientists, representatives from other government departments and foreign space agencies, a lawyer, a communications expert, and—this spot is currently vacant—an ethicist.

Although Conley will be ultimately responsible for determining how close to the recurring slope lineae Curiosity can get, she will reach that decision using a calculation made by NASA scientists as to how many of the original thirty thousand hitchhikers might still be aboard the rover today. This is where Kasthuri Venkateswaran, a microbiologist at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and Nick Bernardini, the planetary-protection lead on both Curiosity and the Mars 2020 mission, will play an important role. After Curiosity launched, Venkateswaran and his colleagues took the cloths that had been used to wipe down the rover’s exposed surfaces and examined the genetic traces left behind on them. Thanks to these efforts, we now have the first Martian passenger manifesto: lots of Actinobacteria and Alphaproteobacteria; some  Nitrososphaeraceae; a few dark-pigmented, double-wall-protected fungal spores of Melanommatales; and various others.

As Conley pointed out, though, it is not enough just to “have name tags for the microbes on Curiosity—we need to know what their capabilities are.” In other words, could they survive a lengthy journey in the vacuum of space and then proliferate on Mars? To answer that question, Venkateswaran’s group has started sending some of the hardiest candidates up for eighteen-month stints aboard the International Space Station. So far, the findings confirm what many scientists suspected—that NASA’s rigorous cleaning and decontamination processes have inadvertently selected for the kinds of microorganisms that don’t mind high radiation, extreme aridity, and low nutrient levels. These bugs tend to hibernate inside tough exterior shells until conditions are right for them to come out. Bacillus pumilus SAFR-032, for instance, a bacterium that was first discovered at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory’s Spacecraft Assembly Facility, was damaged but not killed by its ride through space—and, Venkateswaran added, it “could potentially survive for millions of years once deposited on the Martian surface.”

Some of Earth’s extremophiles are now Martians; that much is evident. Whether they can emerge from dormancy and grow—whether they, as Venkateswaran put it, are capable “of making the red planet green”—is much less well understood. Venkateswaran’s data will soon be entered into Bernadini’s byzantine planetary-protection spreadsheet, which will spit out a number for Conley. She hopes to decide what Curiosity will do within six months, but she’s currently betting against it. “It’s highly unlikely we would take the risk of potentially contaminating a subsurface aquifer of Mars,” she said. “We just don’t know enough about it to allow that level of risk.”

=== EXPERIMENT 2: Reading Comprehension-Based Evaluation ===

3 TOEFL Texts included below, as they are no longer available online at their original URLs.

=== Text 1 from Experiment 2 (Plain Text) ===

“Research: Change in walking may indicate cognitive decline”. 649 words.

Subtle changes in the way a person walks can be an early warning sign of cognitive decline and a signal for advanced testing, according to research out at the Alzheimer's Association International Conference 2012.

The findings are the first to link a physical symptom to disease, which up until now, required doctors to begin a diagnosis by focusing on cognition and administering lengthy neurological exams. The evidence in the five studies is "robust," say experts, adding walking changes can occur even before cognition decline surfaces. The presentation on the opening day of the weeklong meetings follows a government plan announced in May to help train doctors to detect the disease earlier and to find a cure by 2025. 

"Monitoring deterioration and other changes in a person's gait is ideal because it doesn't require any expensive technology or take a lot of time to assess,'' says Bill Thies, chief medical and scientific officer for the Alzheimer's Association. 

The disease affects 5.4 million mostly older people in the USA, numbers expected to spike to 16 million in 2050 as the Baby Boomers age. Nearly 5,000 researchers are attending the meetings in Vancouver, where dozens of studies will address new treatments currently being tested in trials and how lifestyle influences the disease. 

"Walking and movements require a perfect and simultaneous integration of multiple areas of the brain,'' says Rodolfo Savica, author of a study done at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. 

Walking changes occur because the disease interferes with the circuitry between these areas of brain. Savica ruled out other diseases (Parkinson's, arthritis) as possible causes of gait change. 

In the Mayo Clinic study, researchers measured the stride length, cadence and velocity of more than 1,341 participants through a computerized gait instrument at two or more visits roughly 15 months apart. They found that study participants with lower cadence, velocity and length of stride experienced significantly larger declines in global cognition, memory and executive function. 

"These changes support a possible role of gait changes as an early predictor of cognitive impairment,'' Savica says. 

Another large study of 1,153 adults with a mean age of 78 done by researchers at the Basel Mobility Center in Basel Switzerland found gait became "slower and more variable as cognition decline progressed.'' 

Participants were divided into groups based on their cognitive diagnoses: cognitively healthy, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or Alzheimer's dementia. Gait was measured using a walkway with nearly 30,000 integrated sensors. 

"Those with Alzheimer's dementia walked slower than those with MCI, who in turn walked slower that those who were cognitively healthy,'' says Stephanie Bridenbaugh, lead researcher. 

Bridenbaugh says analysis of walking could also be used to show if treatments to treat the disease are working. 

"At the annual wellness visit required by Medicare, a physician could add a walking test to the checklist without adding a lot of extra time,'' says Thies. 

Yet, one of the study's researchers said that one annual test wouldn't work with everyone. 

"You'd be surprised how many people say to me 'He doesn't walk that well at home,' when I give them a gait test in the office,'' says physician Lisa Silbert. 

Silbert conducted research on 19 dementia-free volunteers enrolled in the Intelligent Systems for Assessment of Aging Changes study at Oregon Health and Science University in Portland. They measured gait speed during MRIs and gait speeds at home. Participants walked faster when measured once in person than when walking in their home. Slower in-home walking speed was associated with smaller total brain size. Dementias cause brain shrinkage. 

"Walking speed taken at a single time point may overestimate the walking abilities in the elderly,'' she says.



=== Text 2 from Experiment 2 (TOP5) ===

“‘God particle’ may shed light on dark matter”. 974 words.

Still wondering what all the "God particle" hoopla was all about? 

Well, try this out. 

The subatomic particle is better known to scientists as the Higgs boson. And after decades of searches, it seems likely the elusive particle has been successfully detected inside an underground tunnel experiment run by the European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN) outside Geneva. Results "consistent" with the hard-to-detect particle, in the words of CERN chief Rolf Heuer as he announced the discovery July 4, may be the opening act in explaining the structure of the sky over our heads. 

A source of heartburn to serious science types now, the "God particle" nickname for the Higgs boson comes from the title of a 1993 book by Nobel-prize winner Leon Lederman, who was trying to play up the elusive nature of the particle. 

For a glimpse of one implication of this latest big news in science, climb aboard a time machine, says physicist Jonathan Feng of the University of California-Irvine, and visit the birth of the universe 13.7 billion years ago. 

"Simply take the universe backwards, to an early time when the cosmos was a hot mass, brand new, filled with particles that each weighed perhaps 500 times as much as a proton," says Feng (protons are positively charged subatomic particles inside atoms). "Now play the film forward. Just let it go until it expands to fill with today's stars and galaxies, and what you find is that it contains amounts of that particle that are just right to be 'dark matter' filling the universe." 

Terrific, you might say, but what's so wonderful about dark matter? 

Dark matter is basically a bunch of stuff, likely exotic physics particles, that we can't really see (hence its name) but we know is out there. Astronomers realized a few decades ago that galaxies should be spinning faster than they are if the stars within them were the only things providing the gravity that holds them together. So, their theories go, there must be something - dark matter - slowing them down. 

It turns out that stars are just the shiny hubcaps on each galaxy, outweighed by a factor of nearly 6-to-1 by all the dark matter out there. Dark matter even pulls itself together through gravity. For example, the journal Nature last week reported that a dark matter cloud gravitationally connects two clusters of galaxies, called Abell 222 and Abell 223. This cloudy filament stretches over 11 million light years between the clusters and weighs 98 trillion times as much as our sun. 

That's a lot of dark matter. So is the Higgs boson this elusive dark matter particle (or particles) then? 

Nope. But it may be a key to dark matter, physicists say. 

The Higgs boson is the physics particle that gives other particles their mass. Essentially it interacts with them to increase their resistance to being moved faster, which we can measure as mass. 

Because the Higgs boson's basic job is to interact with other physics particles to give them mass, "the Higgs boson can interact with dark matter very easily," Caltech's Sean Carroll explained on NPR's Science Friday show after the recent "God particle" announcement. "Dark matter is one of the most exciting implications of this discovery," Carroll said. 

How? That brings us back to Feng's rerun of the universe. "Having a particle out there theoretically just a little heavier than the Higgs boson, which interacts with it, is waving a red cape in front of the eyes of physicists," Feng says. "There is a lot more data coming from CERN ahead that may reveal the dark matter particle." 

Dark matter particles that theoretically could be detected at CERN's underground Large Hadron Collider are envisioned by a theory called "focus point supersymmetry." Supersymmetry theories predict that the already- discovered particles that comprise everyday matter have much-heavier "super" counterparts awaiting detection (for example, the already detected "quarks" inside protons would have an undetected super-partner called "squarks").Focus point supersymmetry predicts both a Higgs boson with a weight similar to the one reported on July 4, about 130 times as heavy as a proton, and dark matter particles. 

"In fact, the simplest focus point models predict that dark matter particles should be seen not long from now in the underground detectors that are searching for them," if the CERN lab indeed found a Higgs boson, Feng says. "So there are really two predictions - dark matter should be seen in underground detectors, and new particles should be seen at the Large Hadron Collider in the next few years." Some of the new superpartner particles theoretically weigh in the detectable range for the underground experiment. 

Finding these new particles would crack the dark matter mystery and would indicate that even heavier super- particles are out there, ones that someday could allow physicists to explain gravity the same way they can explain electromagnetic and nuclear forces, a goal of cosmologists for nearly a century. 

"The simplest outcome is that we'll be totally wrong and it won't find anything," Feng says. "But we are at a point in physics where we can talk about theories and experiments coming together very closely thanks to what is now happening, and we couldn't do that for a long time before ." 

When do the next big results come from CERN that might offer more answers? Likely in December. So, Feng says, physicists celebrated one holiday, July 4, with new particle results and hopefully Christmas will bring them hints of new presents. "That would be excellent, we couldn't ask for better gifts," he says.

=== Text 3 from Experiment 2 (TOP5+Graded) ===

“Excerpted from What Video Games Have to Teach us about Learning and Literacy”. 818 words.

When people learn to play video games, they are learning a new literacy. Of course, this is not the way the word "literacy" is normally used. Traditionally, people think of literacy as the ability to read and write. Why, then, should we think of literacy more broadly, in regard to video games or anything else, for that matter? There are two reasons.

First, in the modern world, language is not the only important communicational system. Today images, symbols, graphs, diagrams, artifacts, and many other visual symbols are particularly significant. Thus, the idea of different types of "visual literacy" would seem to be an important one. For example, being able to "read" the images in advertising is one type of visual literacy. And, of course, there are different ways to read such images, ways that are more or less aligned with the intentions and interests of the advertisers. Knowing how to read interior designs in homes, modernist art in museums, and videos on MTV are other forms of visual literacy.

Furthermore, very often today words and images of various sorts are juxtaposed and integrated in a variety of ways. In newspaper and magazines as well as in textbooks, images take up more and more of the space alongside words. In fact, in many modern high school and college textbooks in the sciences images not only take up more space, they now carry meanings that are independent of the words in the text. If you can't read these images, you will not be able to recover their meanings from the words in the text as was more usual in the past. In such multimodal texts (texts that mix words and images), the images often communicate different things from the words. And the combination of the two modes communicates things that neither of the modes does separately. Thus, the idea of different sorts of multimodal literacy seems an important one. Both modes and multimodality go far beyond images and words to include sounds, music, movement, bodily sensations, and smells.

None of this news today, of course. We very obviously live in a world awash with images. It is our first answer to the question why we should think of literacy more broadly. The second answer is this: Even though reading and writing seem so central to what literacy means traditionally, reading and writing are not such general and obvious matters as they might at first seem. After all, we never just read or write; rather, we always read or write something in some way.

There are many different ways of reading and writing. We don't read or write newspapers, legal tracts, essays in literary criticism, poetry, rap songs, and on through a nearly endless list in the same way. Each of these domains has its own rules and requirements. Each is a culturally and historically separate way of reading and writing, and, in that sense, a different literacy. Furthermore, in each case, if we want to "break the rules" and read against the grain of the text-for the purposes of critique, for instance-we have to do so in different ways, usually with some relatively deep knowledge of how to read such texts "according to the rules."

So there are different ways to read different types of texts. Literacy is multiple, then, in the sense that the legal literacy needed for reading law books is not the same as the literacy needed for reading physics texts or superhero comic books. And we should not be too quick to dismiss the latter form of literacy. Many a superhero comic is replete with post-Freudian irony of a sort that would make a modern literary critic's heart beat fast and confuse any otherwise normal adult. Literacy, then, even as traditionally conceived to involve only print, is not a unitary thing but a multiple matter. There are, even in regard to printed texts and even leaving aside images and multimodal texts, different "literacies."

Once we see this multiplicity of literacy (literacies), we realize that when we think about reading and writing, we have to think beyond print. Reading and writing in any domain, whether it is law, rap songs, academic essays, superhero comics, or whatever, are not just ways of decoding print, they are also caught up with and in social practices... Video games are a new form of art. They will not replace books; they will sit beside them, interact with them, and change them and their role in society in various ways, as, indeed, they are already doing strongly with movies. (Today many movies are based on video games and many more are influenced by them.) We have no idea yet how people "read" video games, what meanings they make from them. Still less do we know how they will "read" them in the future.

=== EXPERIMENT 3: Analysis of Salience Scoring ===

“A New Clue Suggests Biden May Run”, The New Yorker, Oct. 8, 2015. 543 words.

(See Text 1 of EXPERIMENT 1)